README.md, before:

# editorconfig-checker

![Logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/master/Docs/logo.png "Logo")

This is a __dependency-free__ tool to check if given files implement your .editorconfig rules.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![Latest Unstable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/v/unstable)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![Monthly Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/d/monthly)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![Daily Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/d/daily)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![composer.lock](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/composerlock)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![psr2](https://img.shields.io/badge/cs-PSR--2-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-2-coding-style-guide.md)

## Installation

Installation via composer is recommended:

```
composer require --dev mstruebing/editorconfig-checker
```

Ohterwise you could clone the repository and execute the script manually.

## Usage

If you installed it via composer you have a binary in your bin folder called `editorconfig-checker`.
Then you could create a script in your `composer.json` like this:

```json
"scripts": {
    "check-editorconfig": "editorconfig-checker src/*.php"
}
```

__Attention!__: You could not use shell-like globbing like `src/**/*.php` to find all files.
You have to explicitly specify the directory under which is searched for certain filetypes.
So the above example would become to `src/*.php` to find all `.php` files in src and it's subdirectories.

At the current state all files which are ending with a dot(.) or dotdot(..) are left out.

You could also check for single files with explicit call them e.g. `editorconfig-checker src/index.php`

If you installed it manually you would have to do something like this:

```
<PATH/TO/ROOT/OF/THIS/REPOS>/src/editorconfig-checker src/*.php
```

The exit value is 0 if no error occurred and 1 to 254 - every error adds 1 to the exit value.
255 means that there is more than 254 violations of your `.editorconfig` rules.

Usage output if no file or glob was provided:
```
Usage:
editorconfig-checker <FILE>|<FILEGLOB>
```

## Additional Notes

Please be aware that this is still experimental.
If you encounter any bugs or anything else please open an issue with as many details as possible.

Commit message:

TASK: Add -h|--help as cli param

README.md, after:

# editorconfig-checker

![Logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/master/Docs/logo.png "Logo")

This is a __dependency-free__ tool to check if given files implement your .editorconfig rules.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![Latest Unstable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/v/unstable)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![Monthly Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/d/monthly)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![Daily Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/d/daily)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![composer.lock](https://poser.pugx.org/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker/composerlock)](https://packagist.org/packages/mstruebing/editorconfig-checker)
[![psr2](https://img.shields.io/badge/cs-PSR--2-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-2-coding-style-guide.md)

## Installation

Installation via composer is recommended:

```
composer require --dev mstruebing/editorconfig-checker
```

Ohterwise you could clone the repository and execute the script manually.

## Usage

If you installed it via composer you have a binary in your bin folder called `editorconfig-checker`.
Then you could create a script in your `composer.json` like this:

```json
"scripts": {
    "check-editorconfig": "editorconfig-checker src/*.php"
}
```

__Attention!__: You could not use shell-like globbing like `src/**/*.php` to find all files.
You have to explicitly specify the directory under which is searched for certain filetypes.
So the above example would become to `src/*.php` to find all `.php` files in src and it's subdirectories.

You could also check for single files with explicit call them e.g. `editorconfig-checker src/index.php`

If you installed it manually you would have to do something like this:

```
<PATH/TO/ROOT/OF/THIS/REPOS>/src/editorconfig-checker src/*.php
```

The exit value is 0 if no error occurred and 1 to 254 - every error adds 1 to the exit value.
255 means that there is more than 254 violations of your `.editorconfig` rules.

Usage output:
```
Usage:
editorconfig-checker [OPTIONS] <FILE>|<FILEGLOB>
available options:
-h, --help
        will print this help text
-d, --dots
        use this flag if you want to also include dotfiles

```

## Additional Notes

Please be aware that this is still experimental.
If you encounter any bugs or anything else please open an issue with as many details as possible.
